# Across two continents: the genomic basis of environmental adaptation in house mice (Mus musculus domesticus) from the Americas

Since their arrival with European colonizers, house mice have successfully spread throughout the Americas. There is strong evidence that populations in North America have adapted in that time, including parallel evolution of phenotypes across latitude (e.g., body size, behavior) as well as significant overlap of genes that show signals of selection.  Here, we investigate the genetics of environmental adaptation in South America. We find that populations in South America are genetically distinct from populations in North America.  We identify candidate genes for environmental adaptation with links to traits like body size, metabolism, immunity, eye function, thermoregulation and the cardiovascular system.  We then bring together data from three transects across two continents to determine if environmental adaptation is predictable, with parallel genetic changes in response to shared conditions. We find that most evidence of environmental adaptation lies in regulatory regions and that, while most candidate genes are unique to individual transects, there is more overlap than expected by chance, providing evidence of a shared response to selection and identifying a core set of candidate genes that likely contribute to environmental adaptation. We also combined the data from all three transects to identify genes associated with variation in body weight. Together, these results highlight the value of studying wild populations of this genetic model system. 


Scripts and code implemented for the manuscript: Across two continents: the genomic basis of environmental adaptation in house mice, Mus musculus domesticus, from the Americas (doi: 10.1101/2023.10.30.564674)
